---
layout: post
title: "Labeling"
date: 2020-04-08
---

Recall that we cut mini data segments to setup the pipeline:
<a href="/assets/P1_dvwa_101619.csv">NIDS-AML</a>
<a href="/assets/friout_00095_20170707131431.csv">CICIDS2017</a>
<a href="/assets/botnet-capture-20110810-neris.csv">CTU-13</a>


## Labeling CTU-13
The CTU-13 dataset can be found
<a href="https://www.stratosphereips.org/datasets-ctu13">here.</a>

This 10k sample is from the first capture: botnet-capture-20110810-neris.pcap
According to the documentation (a README saved with the capture) everything from
the IP address 147.32.84.165 is the Neris botnet traffic.

Let's pull this `.csv` into a Jupyter Notebook.
[CTU-13](/assets/CTU-13-Labeling.html)

Notice on line 7 there's a rude calculation of how many rows describe benign
traffic versus malicious traffic:

0 = 493
1 = 22107

It's fairly unbalanced for malicious traffic. We may have to duplicate the
benign traffic, cut the rows down (definitely more than 10k here), or go
surfing for more traffic to add to create a more balanced set. This is only a
subset of data intended to start the pipeline anyway, not sure it's the best
time to nerd out on balance.

## Labeling NIDS-AML
I'm using P1's DVWA session. Everything from 10.10.10.1 is considered the
attacker IP.

Let's pull this `.csv` into a Jupyter Notebook.
[NIDS-AML](/assets/NIDS-AML-Labeling.html)

0 = 11339
1 = 1731

This one is unbalanced in the other direction (benign > malicious).

## Labeling CICIDS2017
This dataset can be found
<a href="https://www.unb.ca/cic/datasets/ids-2017.html">here.</a>

On that page they note that the attacker IP is a Kali instance from
201.174.165.73. This is also botnet traffic (ARES).

Let's pull this `.csv` into a Jupyter Notebook.
[CICIDS](/assets/CICIDS-Labeling.html)

0 = 14984
1 = 0?

Looks like there's no malicious traffic in this sample. This was a 8GB `.pcap` that
was chunked in order to save it into a VM, analyze it with CICFlowMeter, and
get the `.csv` back out. I need to make a larger chunk it would appear to get
both types of traffic.
