---
layout: post
title: "RFE and me"
date: 2020-08-12
---
## About RFE
RFE, or Recursive Feature Elimination, is a wrapper-type feature selection algorithm
that can select features that are most relevant in predicting the label.
A "wrapper=type" algorithm means that a different ML algorithm is used in the core
of the method, wrapped by RFE, and used to select features.

There are two important configuration options to be aware of:

 1. The choice of the number of features to select
 2. The choice of the algorithm used to help choose features

Luckily the performance of the algorithm is not sensitive to these options being
configured well.

RFE attempts to fit the training data to the core ML algorithm chosen, ranking
features by importance, discarding the least important features, and re-fitting the model.

## Why another algorithm?
In order to determine if there are features that are important across different
datasets and drawing conclusions we must run the datasets through different feature
selection algorithms that are more classifier-agnostic (e.g. not optimizing to
  benefit a particular model). We should look at additional datasets as well.

## RFE Notebooks
My initial run against the CTU-13 dataset went well to test the algorithm
[RFE CTU-13](/assets/RFE-CTU-13-072620.html)


But as I went to test other datasets I ran into the error:
```
TerminatedWorkerError: A worker process managed by the executor was
unexpectedly terminated. This could be caused by a segmentation fault while
calling the function or by an excessive memory usage causing the Operating
System to kill the worker.

The exit codes of the workers are {SIGKILL(-9)}
```

[RFE Error](/assets/RFE-error.html)

So it turns out that the following line of code is important:

`scores = cross_val_score(model, X, y, scoring='accuracy', cv=cv, n_jobs=-1`

What I didn't understand about `n_jobs=-1` is that the function will allocate
_all_ cores to the process if left at -1. Once I figured this out I tried with
half my cores. No dice:

[RFE NIDS-AML-Human Error](/assets/RFE-NIDS-AML-Human.html)

But I did get this one to work:
[RFE NIDS-AML-Auto](/assets/RFE-NIDS-AML-Auto.html)

More fiddling and testing is required to get this to produce usable results.
